README.md, before:

Package: alinex-fs
=================================================

[![Build Status] (https://travis-ci.org/alinex/node-fs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/alinex/node-fs)
[![Coverage Status] (https://coveralls.io/repos/alinex/node-fs/badge.png?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/r/alinex/node-fs?branch=master)
[![Dependency Status] (https://gemnasium.com/alinex/node-fs.png)](https://gemnasium.com/alinex/node-fs)

Like some other packages this module adds some functions to the nodes fs package.
It's designed as a drop-in replacement. It uses also
[graceful-fs](https://github.com/isaacs/node-graceful-fs)
to normalize behavior across different platforms and environments, and to make filesystem access more resilient to errors.

This package combines features found in a lot of other packages together without
including too much. Most methods are very customizable using options.

- drop in replacement for node's fs module
- recursive file handling functions
- complete asynchronous and synchronous
- powerful find method 

It is one of the modules of the [Alinex Universe](http://alinex.github.io/node-alinex)
following the code standards defined there.


Install
-------------------------------------------------

The easiest way is to let npm add the module directly:

    > npm install alinex-fs --save

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/alinex-fs.png?downloads=true&stars=true)](https://nodei.co/npm/alinex-fs/)


Usage
-------------------------------------------------

To use this enhanced filesystem library change your require line from:

    var fs = require('fs');

to the following:

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');

After this you may use the [standard functions](http://nodejs.org/api/fs.html)
and the following extended functions:

* [mkdirs](#mkdirs) and [mkdirsSync](#mkdirssync)
  to make directories like needed (including parent ones)
* [find](#find) and [findSync](#findsync)
  to get a list of files or directories
* [copy](#copy) and [copySync](#copysync)
  to deep copy directories with files
* [remove](#remove) and [removeSync](#removesync)
  to remove a file entry with all it's children, if existing

The methods `find`, `copy` and `remove` supports multiple options to filter the
files they work on.

Like you see all the extended functions use the same naming convention as the
node core, making the use nearly natural.

But you can still use the native Node.js methods, also. Some of the native
methods are slightly changed:

* `stat` and `statSync` will now use a short caching for performance reasons
* `lstat` and `lstatSync` will now use a short caching for performance reasons


### mkdirs

This method is used to create directories recursively if they don't exist.
That means if the parent directory didn't exist it will also be created, if
possible.

__Arguments:__

* `directory`
  Directory to create if not existing.
* `mode` (optional)
  Mode setting defaults to process's file mode creation mask.
* `callback(err, made)`
  The callback will be called just if an error occurred. It returns the first
  directory that had to be created, if any.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.mkdirs('/tmp/some/directory', function(err, made) {
      if (err) return console.error(err);
      if (made) console.log("Directory starting from '"+made+"' was created.");
      console.log("Directory now exists!");
    });


### mkdirsSync

This will do the same as `mkdirs` but in an synchronous version.

__Arguments:__

* `directory`
  Directory to create if not existing.
* `mode` (optional)
  Mode setting defaults to process's file mode creation mask.

__Return:__

* `made`
  Returns the directory that had to be created, if any.

__Throw:__

* `Error`
  If anything out of order happened.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    try {
      made = fs.mkdirsSync('/tmp/some/directory');
      if (made) console.log("Directory starting from '"+made+"' was created.");
      console.log("Directory now exists!");
    } catch (err) {
      return console.error(err);
    }


### find

List files within directory matching specific options.

__Arguments:__

* `source`
  Path to be searched.
* `options`
  Specification of files to find (see [filter](#filter) options).
* `callback(err, list)`
  The callback will be called just if an error occurred. The list of found
  entries will be given.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.find('/tmp/some/directory', { include: '*.jpg' }, function(err, list) {
      if (err) return console.error(err);
      console.log("Found " + list.length + " images.");
      // do something with list
    });


### findSync

List files within directory matching specific options in a synchronous version.

__Arguments:__

* `source`
  Path to be searched.
* `options`
  Specification of files to find

__Return:__

* `list`
  Returns the list of found entries (see [filter](#filter) options).

__Throw:__

* `Error`
  If anything out of order happened.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    try {
      list = fs.findSync('/tmp/some/directory');
      console.log("Found " + list.length + " images.");
      // do something with list
    } catch (err) {
      return console.error(err);
    }


### copy

Copy complete directories in a recursive way.

__Arguments:__

* `source`
  File or directory to be copied.
* `target`
  File or directory to copy to.
* `options`
  Specification of files to find (see [filter](#filter) options).
* `callback(err)`
  The callback will be called just if an error occurred.

__Additional Options:__

* `overwrite`
  if set to `true` it will not fail if destination file already exists and
  overwrite it
* `ignore`
  if set to `true` it will not fail if destination file already exists, skip
  this and go on with the next file

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.copy('/tmp/some/directory', '/new/destination',
    function(err) {
      if (err) return console.error(err);
      console.log("Directory copied!");
    });

Or to copy all js files and overwrite existing:

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.copy('/tmp/some/directory', '/new/destination',
    { includes: '*.js', overwrite: true },
    function(err) {
      if (err) return console.error(err);
      console.log("Directory copied!");
    });


### copySync

Copy complete directories in a recursive way (synchronous).

__Arguments:__

* `source`
  File or directory to be copied.
* `target`
  File or directory to copy to.
* `options`
  Specification of files to find (see [filter](#filter) options).

__Additional Options:__

* `overwrite`
  if set to `true` it will not fail if destination file already exists and
  overwrite it
* `ignore`
  if set to `true` it will not fail if destination file already exists, skip
  this and go on with the next file

__Throw:__

* `Error`
  If anything out of order happened.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.copySync('/tmp/some/directory', '/new/destination');
    console.log("Directory copied!");


### move

This method will move a single file or complete directory like `mv`.

__Arguments:__

* `source`
  File or directory to be copied.
* `target`
  File or directory to copy to.
* `options`
  Specification of files to find (see [filter](#filter) options).
* `callback(err)`
  The callback will be called just if an error occurred.

__Additional Options:__

* `overwrite`
  if set to `true` it will not fail if destination file already exists and
  overwrite it
* `clean`
  if set to `true` it will clean old files from target.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.copy('/tmp/some/directory', '/new/destination', function(err) {
      if (err) return console.error(err);
      console.log("Directory copied!");
    });

You may also use options to specify which files within the source directory to
move.


### moveSync

This method will move a single file or complete directory like `mv`.

__Arguments:__

* `source`
  File or directory to be copied.
* `target`
  File or directory to copy to.
* `options`
  Specification of files to find (see [filter](#filter) options).

__Additional Options:__

* `overwrite`
  if set to `true` it will not fail if destination file already exists and
  overwrite it
* `clean`
  if set to `true` it will clean old files from target.

__Throw:__

* `Error`
  If anything out of order happened.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.moveSync('/tmp/some/directory', '/new/destination');
    console.log("Directory moved!");

You may also use options to specify which files within the source directory to
move.


### remove

This method will remove the given `path` entry and if it is a directory it
will also remove any containing data.

__Arguments:__

* `path`
  File or directory to be removed.
* `options`
  Specification of files to remove (see [filter](#filter) options).
* `callback(err, removed)`
  The callback will be called just if an error occurred. It returns the
  file entry which was removed, if any.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.remove('/tmp/some/directory', function(err, removed) {
      if (err) return console.error(err);
      if (removed) console.log("Directory '"+removed+"' was removed with all it's contents.");
      console.log("Directory no longer exists!");
    });


### removeSync

This will do the same as `remove` but in an synchronous version.

__Arguments:__

* `path`
  File or directory to create if not existing.
* `options`
  Specification of files to remove (see [filter](#filter) options).

__Return:__

* `removed`
  Returns the file entry which was removed.

__Throw:__

* `Error`
   If anything out of order happened.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    try {
      made = fs.removeSync('/tmp/some/directory');
      if (made) console.log("Directory '"+made+"' was removed with all it's contents.");
      console.log("Directory no longer exists!");
    } catch (err) {
      return console.error(err);
    }


### npmbin

Find the defined binary in node_modules directories. It will search in the current
and upper package directories.

__Arguments:__

* `bin`
  name of the binary to search for
* `dir`
  Module directory to start search from.
* `callback(err, cmd)`
  The callback will be called just if an error occurred or after finished.
  The command path to be called.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.npmbin('coffee', function(err, cmd) {
      console.log("Coffee command found at:"+cmd);
    });


### npmbinSync

Find the defined binary in node_modules directories. It will search in the current
and upper package directories.

__Arguments:__

* `bin`
  name of the binary to search for
* `dir`
  Module directory to start search from.

__Return:__

* `cmd`
  the command path to be called.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    cmd = fs.npmbin('coffee');
    console.log("Coffee command found at:"+cmd);


Filter
-------------------------------------------------

The filter is used to select some of the files based on specific settings.
The filter is given as options array which may have some of the following
specification settings.
Additionally some methods may have special options for filtering.

- `include` to specify a inclusion pattern
- `exclude` to specify an exclusion pattern
- `dereference` set to true to follow symbolic links
- `mindepth` minimal depth to match
- `maxdepth` maximal depth to match
- `test` own function to use
- `minsize` minimal filesize
- `maxsize` maximal filesize
- `user` owner name or id
- `group` owner group name or id

- `accessedAfter`
- `accessedBefore`
- `modifiedAfter`
- `modifiedBefore`
- `createdAfter`
- `createdBefore`

If you use multiple options all of them have to match the file to be valid.
See the details below.


### File/path matching

This is based on glob expressions like used in unix systems. You may use these
as the `include` or `exclude` pattern while the `exclude` pattern has the higher
priority. All files are matched which are in the include pattern and not in the
exclude pattern.

The pattern may be a regular expression or a glob pattern string with
the following specification:

To use one of the special characters `*`, `?` or `[` you have to preceed it with an
backslash.

The patter may contain:

- `?` (not between brackets) matches any single character.
- `*` (not between brackets) matches any string, including the empty string.
- `**` (not between brackets) matches any string and also includes the path separator.

Character groups:

- `[ade]` or `[a-z]` Matches any one of the enclosed characters ranges can be given using a hyphen.
- `[!ade]` or `[!a-z]` negates the search and matches any character not enclosed.
- `[^ade]` or `[^a-z]` negates the search and matches any character not enclosed.

Brace Expansion:

- `{a,b}` will be expanded to `a` or `b`
- `{a,b{c,d}}` stacked to match `a`, `bc` or `bd`
- `{1..3}` will be expanded to `1` or `2` or `3`

Extended globbing is also possible:

- ?(list): Matches zero or one occurrence of the given patterns.
- *(list): Matches zero or more occurrences of the given patterns.
- +(list): Matches one or more occurrences of the given patterns.
- @(list): Matches one of the given patterns.

### Search depth

The search depth specifies in which level of subdirectories the filter will match.
1 means everything in the given directory, 2 one level deeper.

- `mindepth` minimal depth to match
- `maxdepth` maximal depth to match


### Dereferencing

Normally the methods will not go into symbolic links. They will see the symbolic
link as itself. Using the option `dereference: true` this behavior will change
and they will follow the symbolic link and check the path it refers to. This
means that they will also go into referenced directories.


### File size

With the `minsize` and  `maxsize` options it is possible to specify the exact
size of the matching files in bytes:

- use an integer value as number of bytes
- use a string like `1M` or `100k`


### Owner and Group

You may also specify files based on the user which owns the files or the group
of the files.

Both may be specified as id (uid or gid) or using the alias name.


### Time specification

It is also possible to select files based on their `creation`, last `modified`
or last `accessed` time.

Specify the `Before` and `After` time as:

- Unix timestamp
- ISO-8601 date formats
- some local formats (based on platform support for Date.parse())
- time difference from now (human readable)

Examples are:

- `yesterday`, `2 days ago`, `last Monday` to specify a day from now
- `yesterday 15:00`, `yesterday at 15:00` to also specify the time
- `1 March`, `1st March` specifies a date in this year
- `1 March 2014`, `1st March 2014`, '03/01/13`, `01.03.2014` all specifiying the 1st of march
- `9:00`, `9:00 GMT+0900` to specify a time today or in combination with a date
- `last night`, `00:00`

If only a day is given it will use 12:00 as the time.


### User defined function

With the `test` parameter you may add an user defined function which will be
called to check each file. It will get the file path and options array so you
may also add some configuration therefore in additional option values.

Asynchrony call:

    fs.find('.', {
      test: function(file, options, cb) {
        cb(~file.indexOf('ab'));
      }
    }, function(err, list) {
      console.log("Found " + list.length + " matches.");
    });

Or use synchrony calls:

    var list = fs.findSync('test/temp', {
      test: function(fil, options) {
        return ~file.indexOf('ab');
      }
    });
    console.log("Found " + list.length + " matches.");


License
-------------------------------------------------

Copyright 2014 Alexander Schilling

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

>  <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Added description of type filter.

README.md, after:

Package: alinex-fs
=================================================

[![Build Status] (https://travis-ci.org/alinex/node-fs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/alinex/node-fs)
[![Coverage Status] (https://coveralls.io/repos/alinex/node-fs/badge.png?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/r/alinex/node-fs?branch=master)
[![Dependency Status] (https://gemnasium.com/alinex/node-fs.png)](https://gemnasium.com/alinex/node-fs)

Like some other packages this module adds some functions to the nodes fs package.
It's designed as a drop-in replacement. It uses also
[graceful-fs](https://github.com/isaacs/node-graceful-fs)
to normalize behavior across different platforms and environments, and to make filesystem access more resilient to errors.

This package combines features found in a lot of other packages together without
including too much. Most methods are very customizable using options.

- drop in replacement for node's fs module
- recursive file handling functions
- complete asynchronous and synchronous
- powerful find method

It is one of the modules of the [Alinex Universe](http://alinex.github.io/node-alinex)
following the code standards defined there.


Install
-------------------------------------------------

The easiest way is to let npm add the module directly:

    > npm install alinex-fs --save

[![NPM](https://nodei.co/npm/alinex-fs.png?downloads=true&stars=true)](https://nodei.co/npm/alinex-fs/)


Usage
-------------------------------------------------

To use this enhanced filesystem library change your require line from:

    var fs = require('fs');

to the following:

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');

After this you may use the [standard functions](http://nodejs.org/api/fs.html)
and the following extended functions:

* [mkdirs](#mkdirs) and [mkdirsSync](#mkdirssync)
  to make directories like needed (including parent ones)
* [find](#find) and [findSync](#findsync)
  to get a list of files or directories
* [copy](#copy) and [copySync](#copysync)
  to deep copy directories with files
* [remove](#remove) and [removeSync](#removesync)
  to remove a file entry with all it's children, if existing

The methods `find`, `copy` and `remove` supports multiple options to filter the
files they work on.

Like you see all the extended functions use the same naming convention as the
node core, making the use nearly natural.

But you can still use the native Node.js methods, also. Some of the native
methods are slightly changed:

* `stat` and `statSync` will now use a short caching for performance reasons
* `lstat` and `lstatSync` will now use a short caching for performance reasons


### mkdirs

This method is used to create directories recursively if they don't exist.
That means if the parent directory didn't exist it will also be created, if
possible.

__Arguments:__

* `directory`
  Directory to create if not existing.
* `mode` (optional)
  Mode setting defaults to process's file mode creation mask.
* `callback(err, made)`
  The callback will be called just if an error occurred. It returns the first
  directory that had to be created, if any.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.mkdirs('/tmp/some/directory', function(err, made) {
      if (err) return console.error(err);
      if (made) console.log("Directory starting from '"+made+"' was created.");
      console.log("Directory now exists!");
    });


### mkdirsSync

This will do the same as `mkdirs` but in an synchronous version.

__Arguments:__

* `directory`
  Directory to create if not existing.
* `mode` (optional)
  Mode setting defaults to process's file mode creation mask.

__Return:__

* `made`
  Returns the directory that had to be created, if any.

__Throw:__

* `Error`
  If anything out of order happened.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    try {
      made = fs.mkdirsSync('/tmp/some/directory');
      if (made) console.log("Directory starting from '"+made+"' was created.");
      console.log("Directory now exists!");
    } catch (err) {
      return console.error(err);
    }


### find

List files within directory matching specific options.

__Arguments:__

* `source`
  Path to be searched.
* `options`
  Specification of files to find (see [filter](#filter) options).
* `callback(err, list)`
  The callback will be called just if an error occurred. The list of found
  entries will be given.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.find('/tmp/some/directory', { include: '*.jpg' }, function(err, list) {
      if (err) return console.error(err);
      console.log("Found " + list.length + " images.");
      // do something with list
    });


### findSync

List files within directory matching specific options in a synchronous version.

__Arguments:__

* `source`
  Path to be searched.
* `options`
  Specification of files to find

__Return:__

* `list`
  Returns the list of found entries (see [filter](#filter) options).

__Throw:__

* `Error`
  If anything out of order happened.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    try {
      list = fs.findSync('/tmp/some/directory');
      console.log("Found " + list.length + " images.");
      // do something with list
    } catch (err) {
      return console.error(err);
    }


### copy

Copy complete directories in a recursive way.

__Arguments:__

* `source`
  File or directory to be copied.
* `target`
  File or directory to copy to.
* `options`
  Specification of files to find (see [filter](#filter) options).
* `callback(err)`
  The callback will be called just if an error occurred.

__Additional Options:__

* `overwrite`
  if set to `true` it will not fail if destination file already exists and
  overwrite it
* `ignore`
  if set to `true` it will not fail if destination file already exists, skip
  this and go on with the next file

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.copy('/tmp/some/directory', '/new/destination',
    function(err) {
      if (err) return console.error(err);
      console.log("Directory copied!");
    });

Or to copy all js files and overwrite existing:

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.copy('/tmp/some/directory', '/new/destination',
    { includes: '*.js', overwrite: true },
    function(err) {
      if (err) return console.error(err);
      console.log("Directory copied!");
    });


### copySync

Copy complete directories in a recursive way (synchronous).

__Arguments:__

* `source`
  File or directory to be copied.
* `target`
  File or directory to copy to.
* `options`
  Specification of files to find (see [filter](#filter) options).

__Additional Options:__

* `overwrite`
  if set to `true` it will not fail if destination file already exists and
  overwrite it
* `ignore`
  if set to `true` it will not fail if destination file already exists, skip
  this and go on with the next file

__Throw:__

* `Error`
  If anything out of order happened.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.copySync('/tmp/some/directory', '/new/destination');
    console.log("Directory copied!");


### move

This method will move a single file or complete directory like `mv`.

__Arguments:__

* `source`
  File or directory to be copied.
* `target`
  File or directory to copy to.
* `options`
  Specification of files to find (see [filter](#filter) options).
* `callback(err)`
  The callback will be called just if an error occurred.

__Additional Options:__

* `overwrite`
  if set to `true` it will not fail if destination file already exists and
  overwrite it
* `clean`
  if set to `true` it will clean old files from target.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.copy('/tmp/some/directory', '/new/destination', function(err) {
      if (err) return console.error(err);
      console.log("Directory copied!");
    });

You may also use options to specify which files within the source directory to
move.


### moveSync

This method will move a single file or complete directory like `mv`.

__Arguments:__

* `source`
  File or directory to be copied.
* `target`
  File or directory to copy to.
* `options`
  Specification of files to find (see [filter](#filter) options).

__Additional Options:__

* `overwrite`
  if set to `true` it will not fail if destination file already exists and
  overwrite it
* `clean`
  if set to `true` it will clean old files from target.

__Throw:__

* `Error`
  If anything out of order happened.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.moveSync('/tmp/some/directory', '/new/destination');
    console.log("Directory moved!");

You may also use options to specify which files within the source directory to
move.


### remove

This method will remove the given `path` entry and if it is a directory it
will also remove any containing data.

__Arguments:__

* `path`
  File or directory to be removed.
* `options`
  Specification of files to remove (see [filter](#filter) options).
* `callback(err, removed)`
  The callback will be called just if an error occurred. It returns the
  file entry which was removed, if any.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.remove('/tmp/some/directory', function(err, removed) {
      if (err) return console.error(err);
      if (removed) console.log("Directory '"+removed+"' was removed with all it's contents.");
      console.log("Directory no longer exists!");
    });


### removeSync

This will do the same as `remove` but in an synchronous version.

__Arguments:__

* `path`
  File or directory to create if not existing.
* `options`
  Specification of files to remove (see [filter](#filter) options).

__Return:__

* `removed`
  Returns the file entry which was removed.

__Throw:__

* `Error`
   If anything out of order happened.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    try {
      made = fs.removeSync('/tmp/some/directory');
      if (made) console.log("Directory '"+made+"' was removed with all it's contents.");
      console.log("Directory no longer exists!");
    } catch (err) {
      return console.error(err);
    }


### npmbin

Find the defined binary in node_modules directories. It will search in the current
and upper package directories.

__Arguments:__

* `bin`
  name of the binary to search for
* `dir`
  Module directory to start search from.
* `callback(err, cmd)`
  The callback will be called just if an error occurred or after finished.
  The command path to be called.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    fs.npmbin('coffee', function(err, cmd) {
      console.log("Coffee command found at:"+cmd);
    });


### npmbinSync

Find the defined binary in node_modules directories. It will search in the current
and upper package directories.

__Arguments:__

* `bin`
  name of the binary to search for
* `dir`
  Module directory to start search from.

__Return:__

* `cmd`
  the command path to be called.

__Example:__

    var fs = require('alinex-fs');
    cmd = fs.npmbin('coffee');
    console.log("Coffee command found at:"+cmd);


Filter
-------------------------------------------------

The filter is used to select some of the files based on specific settings.
The filter is given as options array which may have some of the following
specification settings.
Additionally some methods may have special options for filtering.

- `include` to specify a inclusion pattern
- `exclude` to specify an exclusion pattern
- `dereference` set to true to follow symbolic links
- `mindepth` minimal depth to match
- `maxdepth` maximal depth to match
- `type` the inode type (file/directory/link)
- `test` own function to use
- `minsize` minimal filesize
- `maxsize` maximal filesize
- `user` owner name or id
- `group` owner group name or id

- `accessedAfter`
- `accessedBefore`
- `modifiedAfter`
- `modifiedBefore`
- `createdAfter`
- `createdBefore`

If you use multiple options all of them have to match the file to be valid.
See the details below.


### File/path matching

This is based on glob expressions like used in unix systems. You may use these
as the `include` or `exclude` pattern while the `exclude` pattern has the higher
priority. All files are matched which are in the include pattern and not in the
exclude pattern.

The pattern may be a regular expression or a glob pattern string with
the following specification:

To use one of the special characters `*`, `?` or `[` you have to preceed it with an
backslash.

The patter may contain:

- `?` (not between brackets) matches any single character.
- `*` (not between brackets) matches any string, including the empty string.
- `**` (not between brackets) matches any string and also includes the path separator.

Character groups:

- `[ade]` or `[a-z]` Matches any one of the enclosed characters ranges can be given using a hyphen.
- `[!ade]` or `[!a-z]` negates the search and matches any character not enclosed.
- `[^ade]` or `[^a-z]` negates the search and matches any character not enclosed.

Brace Expansion:

- `{a,b}` will be expanded to `a` or `b`
- `{a,b{c,d}}` stacked to match `a`, `bc` or `bd`
- `{1..3}` will be expanded to `1` or `2` or `3`

Extended globbing is also possible:

- ?(list): Matches zero or one occurrence of the given patterns.
- *(list): Matches zero or more occurrences of the given patterns.
- +(list): Matches one or more occurrences of the given patterns.
- @(list): Matches one of the given patterns.


### Dereferencing

Normally the methods will not go into symbolic links. They will see the symbolic
link as itself. Using the option `dereference: true` this behavior will change
and they will follow the symbolic link and check the path it refers to. This
means that they will also go into referenced directories.


### Search depth

The search depth specifies in which level of subdirectories the filter will match.
1 means everything in the given directory, 2 one level deeper.

- `mindepth` minimal depth to match
- `maxdepth` maximal depth to match


### File type

Use `type` to specify which type of file you want to use.

Possible values:

- `file`, `f`
- `directory`, `dir`, `d`
- `link`, `l`
- `fifo`, `pipe`, `p`
- `socket`, `s`


### File size

With the `minsize` and  `maxsize` options it is possible to specify the exact
size of the matching files in bytes:

- use an integer value as number of bytes
- use a string like `1M` or `100k`


### Owner and Group

You may also specify files based on the user which owns the files or the group
of the files.

Both may be specified as id (uid or gid) or using the alias name.


### Time specification

It is also possible to select files based on their `creation`, last `modified`
or last `accessed` time.

Specify the `Before` and `After` time as:

- Unix timestamp
- ISO-8601 date formats
- some local formats (based on platform support for Date.parse())
- time difference from now (human readable)

Examples are:

- `yesterday`, `2 days ago`, `last Monday` to specify a day from now
- `yesterday 15:00`, `yesterday at 15:00` to also specify the time
- `1 March`, `1st March` specifies a date in this year
- `1 March 2014`, `1st March 2014`, '03/01/13`, `01.03.2014` all specifiying the 1st of march
- `9:00`, `9:00 GMT+0900` to specify a time today or in combination with a date
- `last night`, `00:00`

If only a day is given it will use 12:00 as the time.


### User defined function

With the `test` parameter you may add an user defined function which will be
called to check each file. It will get the file path and options array so you
may also add some configuration therefore in additional option values.

Asynchrony call:

    fs.find('.', {
      test: function(file, options, cb) {
        cb(~file.indexOf('ab'));
      }
    }, function(err, list) {
      console.log("Found " + list.length + " matches.");
    });

Or use synchrony calls:

    var list = fs.findSync('test/temp', {
      test: function(fil, options) {
        return ~file.indexOf('ab');
      }
    });
    console.log("Found " + list.length + " matches.");


License
-------------------------------------------------

Copyright 2014 Alexander Schilling

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

>  <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
